### **Domain Randomization for Transferring Deep Neural Networks from** **Simulation to the Real World**

Josh Tobin [1], Rachel Fong [2], Alex Ray [2], Jonas Schneider [2], Wojciech Zaremba [2], Pieter Abbeel [3]



_**Abstract**_ **— Bridging the ‘reality gap’ that separates simulated**
**robotics from experiments on hardware could accelerate robotic**
**research** **through** **improved** **data** **availability.** **This** **paper** **ex-**
**plores** _**domain**_ _**randomization**_ **,** **a** **simple** **technique** **for** **training**
**models on simulated images that transfer to real images by ran-**
**domizing rendering in the simulator. With enough variability in**
**the** **simulator,** **the** **real** **world** **may** **appear** **to** **the** **model** **as** **just**
**another** **variation.** **We** **focus** **on** **the** **task** **of** **object** **localization,**
**which** **is** **a** **stepping** **stone** **to** **general** **robotic** **manipulation**
**skills.** **We** **find** **that** **it** **is** **possible** **to** **train** **a** **real-world** **object**
**detector** **that** **is** **accurate** **to** 1 _._ 5 cm **and** **robust** **to** **distractors**
**and** **partial** **occlusions** **using** **only** **data** **from** **a** **simulator** **with**
**non-realistic** **random** **textures.** **To** **demonstrate** **the** **capabilities**
**of our detectors, we show they can be used to perform grasping**
**in** **a** **cluttered** **environment.** **To** **our** **knowledge,** **this** **is** **the** **first**
**successful** **transfer** **of** **a** **deep** **neural** **network** **trained** _**only**_ **on**
**simulated** **RGB** **images** **(without** **pre-training** **on** **real** **images)**
**to** **the** **real** **world** **for** **the** **purpose** **of** **robotic** **control.**


I. INTRODUCTION


Performing robotic learning in a physics simulator could
accelerate the impact of machine learning on robotics by
allowing faster, more scalable, and lower-cost data collection
than is possible with physical robots. Learning in simulation is especially promising for building on recent results
using deep reinforcement learning to achieve human-level
performance on tasks like Atari [27] and robotic control

[21], [38]. Deep reinforcement learning employs random
exploration, which can be dangerous on physical hardware. It
often requires hundreds of thousands or millions of samples

[27], which could take thousands of hours to collect, making
it impractical for many applications. Ideally, we could learn
policies that encode complex behaviors entirely in simulation
and successfully run those policies on physical robots with
minimal additional training.
Unfortunately, discrepancies between physics simulators
and the real world make transferring behaviors from simulation challenging. _System_ _identification_, the process of
tuning the parameters of the simulation to match the behavior
of the physical system, is time-consuming and error-prone.
Even with strong system identification, the real world has
_unmodeled_ _physical_ _effects_ like nonrigidity, gear backlash,
wear-and-tear, and fluid dynamics that are not captured by
current physics simulators. Furthermore, _low-fidelity_ _sim-_
_ulated_ _sensors_ like image renderers are often unable to
reproduce the richness and noise produced by their realworld counterparts. These differences, known collectively as


1OpenAI and UC Berkeley EECS, josh@openai.com
2OpenAI, _{_ rfong, aray, jonas, woj _}_ @openai.com
3OpenAI, UC Berkeley EECS & ICSI, pieter@openai.com


#### **Training Test**

Fig. 1. Illustration of our approach. An object detector is trained on
hundreds of thousands of low-fidelity rendered images with random camera
positions, lighting conditions, object positions, and non-realistic textures.
At test time, the same detector is used in the real world with no additional
training.


the _reality_ _gap_, form the barrier to using simulated data on
real robots.
This paper explores _domain_ _randomization_, a simple but
promising method for addressing the reality gap. Instead of
training a model on a single simulated environment, we
randomize the simulator to expose the model to a wide
range of environments at training time. The purpose of this
work is to test the following hypothesis: if the variability in
simulation is significant enough, models trained in simulation
will generalize to the real world with no additional training.
Though in principle domain randomization could be applied to any component of the reality gap, we focus on the
challenge of transferring from low-fidelity simulated camera
images. Robotic control from camera pixels is attractive due
to the low cost of cameras and the rich data they provide, but
challenging because it involves processing high-dimensional
input data. Recent work has shown that supervised learning
with deep neural networks is a powerful tool for learning
generalizable representations from high-dimensional inputs

[20], but deep learning relies on a large amount of labeled
data. Labeled data is difficult to obtain in the real world
for precise robotic manipulation behaviors, but it is easy to
generate in a physics simulator.
We focus on the task of training a neural network to


detect the location of an object. Object localization from
pixels is a well-studied problem in robotics, and state-ofthe-art methods employ complex, hand-engineered image
processing pipelines (e.g., [6], [5], [44]). This work is a first
step toward the goal of using deep learning to improve the
accuracy of object detection pipelines. Moreover, we see simto-real transfer for object localization as a stepping stone to
transferring general-purpose manipulation behaviors.
We find that for a range of geometric objects, we are able
to train a detector that is accurate to around 1 _._ 5 cm in the
real world using only simulated data rendered with simple,
algorithmically generated textures. Although previous work
demonstrated the ability to perform robotic control using a
neural network pretrained on ImageNet and fine-tuned on
randomized rendered pixels [37], this paper provides the first
demonstration that domain randomization can be useful for
robotic tasks requiring precision. We also provide an ablation
study of the impact of different choices of randomization
and training method on the success of transfer. We find that
with a sufficient number of textures, pre-training the object
detector using real images is unnecessary. To our knowledge,
this is the first successful transfer of a deep neural network
trained _only_ on simulated RGB images to the real world for
the purpose of robotic control.


II. RELATED WORK


_A._ _Object_ _detection_ _and_ _pose_ _estimation_ _for_ _robotics_


Object detection and pose estimation for robotics is a wellstudied problem in the literature (see, e.g., [4], [5], [6], [10],

[44], [50], [54]). Recent approaches typically involve offline
construction or learning of a 3D model of objects in the
scene (e.g., a full 3D mesh model [44] or a 3D metric feature
representation [5]). At test time, features from the test data
(e.g., Scale-Invariant Feature Transform [SIFT] features [12]
or color co-occurrence histograms [10]) are matched with the
3D models (or features from the 3D models). For example,
a black-box nonlinear optimization algorithm can be used
to minimize the re-projection error of the SIFT points from
the object model and the 2D points in the test image [4].
Most successful approaches rely on using multiple camera
frames [6] or depth information [44]. There has also been
some success with only monocular camera images [4].
Compared to our method, traditional approaches require
less extensive training and take advantage of richer sensory
data, allowing them to detect the full 3D pose of objects
(position and orientation) without any assumptions about
the location or size of the surface on which the objects
are placed. However, our approach avoids the challenging
problem of 3D reconstruction, and employs a simple, easy
to implement deep learning-based pipeline that may scale
better to more challenging problems.


_B._ _Domain_ _adaptation_


The computer vision community has devoted significant
study to the problem of adapting vision-based models trained
in a source domain to a previously unseen target domain
(see, e.g., [9], [14], [15], [19], [23], [25], [51]). A variety



of approaches have been proposed, including re-training the
model in the target domain (e.g., [52]), adapting the weights
of the model based on the statistics of the source and target
domains (e.g., [22]), learning invariant features between
domains (e.g., [47]), and learning a mapping from the target
domain to the source domain (e.g., [43]). Researchers in
the reinforcement learning community have also studied the
problem of domain adaptation by learning invariant feature
representations [13], adapting pretrained networks [35], and
other methods. See [13] for a more complete treatment of
domain adaptation in the reinforcement learning literature.
In this paper we study the possibility of transfer from
simulation to the real world _without_ performing domain
adaptation.


_C._ _Bridging_ _the_ _reality_ _gap_


Previous work on leveraging simulated data for physical
robotic experiments explored several strategies for bridging
the reality gap.
One approach is to make the simulator closely match
the physical reality by performing system identification and
using high-quality rendering. Though using realistic RGB
rendering alone has had limited success for transferring to
real robotic tasks [16], incorporating realistic simulation of
depth information can allow models trained on rendered
images to transfer reasonably well to the real world [32].
Combining data from high-quality simulators with other
approaches like fine-tuning can also reduce the number of
labeled samples required in the real world [34].
Unlike these approaches, ours allows the use of lowquality renderers optimized for speed and not carefully
matched to real-world textures, lighting, and scene configurations.
Other work explores using domain adaptation techniques
to bridge the reality gap. It is often faster to fine-tune a
controller learned in simulation than to learn from scratch in
the real world [7], [18]. In [11], the authors use a variational
autoencoder trained on simulated data to encode trajectories
of motor outputs corresponding to a desired behavior type
(e.g., reaching, grasping) as a low-dimensional latent code.
A policy is learned on real data mapping features to distributions over latent codes. The learned policy overcomes the
reality gap by choosing latent codes that correspond to the
desired physical behavior via exploration.
Domain adaptation has also been applied to robotic vision.
Rusu et al. [36] explore using the progressive network
architecture to adapt a model that is pre-trained on simulated
pixels, and find it has better sample efficiency than finetuning or training in the real-world alone. In [46], the authors
explore learning a correspondence between domains that
allows the real images to be mapped into a space understood
by the model. While both of the preceding approaches
require reward functions or labeled data, which can be
difficult to obtain in the real world, Mitash and collaborators

[26] explore pretraining an object detector using realistic
rendered images with randomized lighting from 3D models
to bootstrap an automated learning learning process that does


not require manually labeling data and uses only around 500
real-world samples.
A related idea, _iterative_ _learning_ _control_, employs realworld data to improve the dynamics model used to determine
the optimal control behavior, rather than using real-world
data to improve the controller directly. Iterative learning control starts with a dynamics model, applies the corresponding
control behavior on the real system, and then closes the loop
by using the resulting data to improve the dynamics model.
Iterative learning control has been applied to a variety of
robotic control problems, from model car control (e.g., [1]
and [8]) to surgical robotics (e.g., [48]).
Domain adaptation and iterative learning control are important tools for addressing the reality gap, but in contrast
to these approaches, ours requires no additional training on
real-world data. Our method can also be combined easily
with most domain adaptation techniques.
Several authors have previously explored the idea of using
domain randomization to bridge the reality gap.
In the context of physics adaptation, Mordatch and collaborators [28] show that training a policy on an ensemble of
dynamics models can make the controller robust to modeling
error and improve transfer to a real robot. Similarly, in [2],
the authors train a policy to pivot a tool held in the robot’s
gripper in a simulator with randomized friction and action
delays, and find that it works in the real world and is robust
to errors in estimation of the system parameters.
Rather than relying on controller robustness, Yu et al. [53]
use a model trained on varied physics to perform system
identification using online trajectory data, but their approach
is not shown to succeed in the real world. Rajeswaran et al.

[33] explore different training strategies for learning from
an ensemble of models, including adversarial training and
adapting the ensemble distribution using data from the target
domain, but also do not demonstrate successful real-world
transfer.
Researchers in computer vision have used 3D models as
a tool to improve performance on real images since the
earliest days of the field (e.g., [30], [24]). More recently,
3D models have been used to augment training data to
aid transferring deep neural networks between datasets and
prevent over-fitting on small datasets for tasks like viewpoint
estimation [40] and object detection [42], [29]. Recent work
has explored using only synthetic data for training 2D object
detectors (i.e., predicting a bounding box for objects in the
scene). In [31], the authors find that by pretraining a network
on ImageNet and fine-tuning on synthetic data created from
3D models, better detection performance on the PASCAL
dataset can be achieved than training with only a few labeled
examples from the real dataset.
In contrast to our work, most object detection results
in computer vision use realistic textures, but do not create
coherent 3D scenes. Instead, objects are rendered against a
solid background or a randomly chosen photograph. As a
result, our approach allows our models to understand the 3D
spatial information necessary for rich interactions with the
physical world.



Sadeghi and Levine’s work [37] is the most similar to our
own. The authors demonstrate that a policy mapping images
to controls learned in a simulator with varied 3D scenes and
textures can be applied successfully to real-world quadrotor
flight. However, their experiments - collision avoidance in
hallways and open spaces – do not demonstrate the ability to
deal with high-precision tasks. Our approach also does not
rely on precise camera information or calibration, instead
randomizing the position, orientation, and field of view
of the camera in the simulator. Whereas their approach
chooses textures from a dataset of around 200 pre-generated
materials, most of which are realistic, our approach is the first
to use only non-realistic textures created by a simple random
generation process, which allows us to train on hundreds of
thousands (or more) of unique texturizations of the scene.


III. METHOD


Given some objects of interest _{si}i_, our goal is to train an
object detector _d_ ( _I_ 0) that maps a single monocular camera
frame _I_ 0 to the Cartesian coordinates _{_ ( _xi, yi, zi_ ) _}i_ of each
object. In addition to the objects of interest, our scenes
sometimes contain distractor objects that must be ignored by
the network. Our approach is to train a deep neural network
in simulation using domain randomization. The remainder of
this section describes the specific domain randomization and
neural network training methodology we use.


_A._ _Domain_ _randomization_


The purpose of domain randomization is to provide
enough simulated variability at training time such that at
test time the model is able to generalize to real-world data.
We randomize the following aspects of the domain for each
sample used during training:


_•_ Number and shape of distractor objects on the table

_•_ Position and texture of all objects on the table

_•_ Textures of the table, floor, skybox, and robot

_•_ Position, orientation, and field of view of the camera

_•_ Number of lights in the scene

_•_ Position, orientation, and specular characteristics of the
lights

_•_ Type and amount of random noise added to images

Since we use a single monocular camera image from an
uncalibrated camera to estimate object positions, we fix the
height of the table in simulation, effectively creating a 2D
pose estimation task. Random textures are chosen among the
following:

(a) A random RGB value
(b) A gradient between two random RGB values
(c) A checker pattern between two random RGB values

The textures of all objects are chosen uniformly at random

- the detector does not have access to the color of the
object(s) of interest at training time, only their size and
shape. We render images using the MuJoCo Physics Engine’s

[45] built-in renderer. This renderer is not intended to be
photo-realistic, and physically plausible choices of textures
and lighting are not needed.


Between 0 and 10 distractor objects are added to the
table in each scene. Distractor objects on the floor or in
the background are unnecessary, despite some clutter (e.g.,
cables) on the floor in our real images.
Our method avoids calibration and precise placement of
the camera in the real world by randomizing characteristics
of the cameras used to render images in training. We manually place a camera in the simulated scene that approximately
matches the viewpoint and field of view of the real camera.
Each training sample places the camera randomly within a
(10 _×_ 5 _×_ 10) cm box around this initial point. The viewing
angle of the camera is calculated analytically to point at a
fixed point on the table, and then offset by up to 0 _._ 1 radians
in each direction. The field of view is also scaled by up to
5 % from the starting point.


_B._ _Model_ _architecture_ _and_ _training_


Convolutional layers Fully connected layers


**(x, y, z)**


(224 x 224 x 64) (112 x 112 x 128) (56 x 56 x 256) (28 x 28 x 512) (14 x 14 x 512) (1 x 1 x 256) (1 x 1 x 64)


Fig. 2. The model architecture used in our experiments. Each vertical
bar corresponds to a layer of the model. ReLU nonlinearities are used
throughout, and max pooling occurs between each of the groupings of
convolutional layers. The input is an image from an external webcam
downsized to (224 _×_ 224) and the output of the network predicts the
( _x, y, z_ ) coordinates of object(s) of interest.


We parametrize our object detector with a deep convolutional neural network. In particular, we use a modified
version the VGG-16 architecture [39] shown in Figure 2.
We chose this architecture because it performs well on a
variety of computer vision tasks, and because it has a wide
availability of pretrained weights. We use the standard VGG
convolutional layers, but use smaller fully connected layers
of sizes 256 and 64 and do not use dropout. For the majority
of our experiments, we use weights obtained by pretraining
on ImageNet to initialize the convolutional layers, which
we hypothesized would be essential to achieving transfer.
In practice, we found that using random weight initialization
works as well in most cases.
We train the detector through stochastic gradient descent
on the _L_ 2 loss between the object positions estimated by
the network and the true object positions using the Adam
optimizer [17]. We found that using a learning rate of around
1e _−_ 4 (as opposed to the standard 1e _−_ 3 for Adam) improved
convergence and helped avoid a common local optimum,
mapping all objects to the center of the table.


IV. EXPERIMENTS


_A._ _Experimental_ _Setup_


We evaluated our approach by training object detectors
for each of eight geometric objects. We constructed mesh
representations for each object to render in the simulator.
Each training sample consists of (a) a rendered image of



Fig. 3. The geometric objects used in our experiments.


the object and one or more distractors (also from among the
geometric object set) on a simulated tabletop and (b) a label
corresponding to the Cartesian coordinates of the center of
mass of the object in the world frame.
For each experiment, we performed a small hyperparameter search, evaluating combinations of two learning rates
(1e _−_ 4 and 2e _−_ 4) and three batch sizes (25, 50, and 100).
We report the performance of the best network.
The goals of our experiments are:

(a) Evaluate the localization accuracy of our trained detectors in the real world, including in the presence of
distractor objects and partial occlusions
(b) Assess which elements of our approach are most
critical for achieving transfer from simulation to the
real world
(c) Determine whether the learned detectors are accurate
enough to perform robotic manipulation tasks


TABLE I

|Detection error for various objects, cm|Col2|Col3|Col4|
|---|---|---|---|
|Evaluation type|Object only|Distractors|Occlusions|
|Cone|1_._3_ ±_ 1_._11|1_._5_ ±_ 1_._0|1_._4_ ±_ 0_._6|
|Cube|1_._3_ ±_ 0_._6|1_._8_ ±_ 1_._2|1_._4_ ±_ 0_._61|
|Cylinder|1_._1_ ±_ 0_._91|1_._9_ ±_ 2_._8|1_._9_ ±_ 2_._9|
|Hexagonal Prism|0_._7_ ±_ 0_._5|0_._6_ ±_ 0_._31|1_._0_ ±_ 1_._01|
|Pyramid|0_._9_ ±_ 0_._31|1_._0_ ±_ 0_._51|1_._1_ ±_ 0_._71|
|Rectangular Prism|1_._3_ ±_ 0_._7|1_._2_ ±_ 0_._41|0_._9_ ±_ 0_._6|
|Tetrahedron|0_._8_ ±_ 0_._41|1_._0_ ±_ 0_._41|3_._2_ ±_ 5_._8|
|Triangular Prism|0_._9_ ±_ 0_._41|0_._9_ ±_ 0_._41|1_._9_ ±_ 2_._2|



_B._ _Localization_ _accuracy_


To evaluate the accuracy of learned detectors in the real
world, we captured 480 webcam images of one or more
geometric objects on a table at a distance of 70 cm to 105 cm
from the camera. The camera position remains constant
across all images. We did not control for lighting conditions
or the rest of the scene around the table (e.g., all images
contain part of the robot and tape and wires on the floor).


1Categories for which the best final performance was achieved for
detector trained from scratch.


We measured ground truth positions for a single object per
image by aligning the object on a grid on the tabletop. Each
of the eight geometric objects has 60 labeled images in the
dataset: 20 with the object alone on the table, 20 in which
one or more distractor objects are present on the table, and
20 in which the object is also partially occluded by another
object.
Table I summarizes the performance of our models on the
test set. Our object detectors are able to localize objects to
within 1 _._ 5 cm (on average) in the real world and perform well
in the presence of clutter and partial occlusions. Though the
accuracy of our trained detectors is promising, note that they
are still over-fitting [2] the simulated training data, where error
is 0 _._ 3 cm to 0 _._ 5 cm. Even with over-fitting, the accuracy is
comparable at a similar distance to the translation error in
traditional techniques for pose estimation in clutter from a
single monocular camera frame [5] that use higher-resolution
images.


_C._ _Ablation_ _study_


To evaluate the importance of different factors of our
training methodology, we assessed the sensitivity of the
algorithm to the following:


_•_ Number of training images

_•_ Number of unique textures seen in training

_•_ Use of random noise in pre-processing

_•_ Presence of distractors in training

_•_ Randomization of camera position in training

_•_ Use of pre-trained weights in the detection model

We found that the method is at least somewhat sensitive
to all of the factors except the use of random noise.


Fig. 4. Sensitivity of test error on real images to the number of simulated
training examples used. Each training example corresponds to a single
labeled example of an object on the table with between 0 and 10 distractor
objects. Lighting and all textures are randomized between iterations.


Figure 4 shows the sensitivity to the number of training
samples used for pre-trained models and models trained from
scratch. Using a pre-trained model, we are able to achieve
relatively accurate real-world detection performance with as


2Overfitting in this setting is more subtle than in the standard supervised
learning where train and test data come from the same distribution. In the
standard supervised learning setting overfitting can be avoided by using a
hold-out set during training. We do apply this idea to ensure that we are
not overfitting on the simulated data. However, since our goal is to learn
from training data originated in the simulator and generalize to test data
originated from the real world, we assume to not have any real world data
available during training. Therefore no validation on real data can be done
during training.



few as 5 _,_ 000 training samples, but performance improves up
to around 50 _,_ 000 samples.
Figure 4 also compares to the performance of a model
trained from scratch (i.e., without using pre-trained ImageNet
weights). Our hypothesis that pre-training would be essential
to generalizing to the real world proved to be false. With a
large amount of training data, random weight initialization
can achieve nearly the same performance in transferring to
the real world as does pre-trained weight initialization. The
best detectors for a given object were often those initialized
with random weights. However, using a pre-trained model
can significantly improve performance when less training
data is used.
Figure 5 shows the sensitivity to the number of unique
texturizations of the scene when trained on a fixed number
(10 _,_ 000) of training examples. We found that performance
degrades significantly when fewer than 1 _,_ 000 textures are
used, indicating that for our experiments, using a large
number of random textures (in addition to random distractors
and object positions) is necessary to achieving transfer. Note
that when 1 _,_ 000 random textures are used in training, the
performance using 10 _,_ 000 images is comparable to that
of using only 1 _,_ 000 images, indicating that in the low
data regime, texture randomization is more important than
randomization of object positions. [3]


Fig. 5. Sensitivity to amount of texture randomization. In each case, the
detector was trained using 10 _,_ 000 random object positions and combinations of distractors, but only the given number of unique texturizations and
lighting conditions were used.


Table II examines the performance of the algorithm when
random noise, distractors, and camera randomization are
removed in training. Incorporating distractors during training
appears to be critical to resilience to distractors in the
real world. Randomizing the position of the camera also
consistently provides a slight accuracy boost, but reasonably
high accuracy is achievable without it. Adding noise during
pretraining appears to have a negligible effect. In practice,
we found that adding a small amount of random noise to
images at training time improves convergence and makes
training less susceptible to local minima.


_D._ _Robotics_ _experiments_


To demonstrate the potential of this technique for transferring robotic behaviors learned in simulation to the real world,


3Note the total number of textures is higher than the number of training
examples in some of these experiments because every scene has many
surfaces, each with its own texture.


TABLE II

|Average detection error on geometric shapes by method, cm4|Col2|Col3|Col4|
|---|---|---|---|
|Evaluation<br>type|_Real images_|_Real images_|_Real images_|
|Evaluation<br>type|Object only|Distractors|Occlusions|
|Full method|**1**_._**3**_ ±_** 0**_._**6**|**1**_._**8**_ ±_** 1**_._**7**|**2**_._**4**_ ±_** 3**_._**0**|
|No noise added|1_._4_ ±_ 0_._7|1_._9_ ±_ 2_._0|**2**_._**4**_ ±_** 2**_._**8**|
|No camera randomization|2_._0_ ±_ 2_._1|2_._4_ ±_ 2_._3|2_._9_ ±_ 3_._5|
|No distractors in training|1_._5_ ±_ 0_._6|7_._2_ ±_ 4_._5|7_._4_ ±_ 5_._3|



we evaluated the use of our object detection networks for
localizing an object in clutter and performing a prescribed
grasp. For two of our most consistently accurate detectors,
we evaluated the ability to pick up the detected object in 20
increasingly cluttered scenes using the positions estimated
by the detector and off-the-shelf motion planning software

[41]. To test the robustness of our method to discrepancies
in object distributions between training and test time, some
of our test images contain distractors placed at orientations
not seen during training (e.g., a hexagonal prism placed on
its side).
We deployed the pipeline on a Fetch robot [49], and found
it was able to successfully detect and pick up the target object
in 38 out of 40 trials, including in highly cluttered scenes
with significant occlusion of the target object. Note that the
trained detectors have no prior information about the color
of the target object, only its shape and size, and are able
to detect objects placed closely to other objects of the same
color.
To test the performance of our object detectors on realworld objects with non-uniform textures, we trained an object
detector to localize a can of Spam from the YCB Dataset [3].
At training time, the can was present on the table along with
geometric object distractors. At test time, instead of using
geometric object distractors, we placed other food items from
the YCB set on the table. The detector was able to ignore
the previously unseen distractors and pick up the target in 9
of 10 trials.
Figure 6 shows examples of the robot grasping trials. For
videos, please visit the web page associated with this paper. [5]


V. CONCLUSION


We demonstrated that an object detector trained only in
simulation can achieve high enough accuracy in the real
world to perform grasping in clutter. Future work will explore
how to make this technique reliable and effective enough
to perform tasks that require contact-rich manipulation or
higher precision.
Future directions that could improve the accuracy of object
detectors trained using domain randomization include:


_•_ Using higher resolution camera frames

_•_ Optimizing model architecture choice


4Each of the models compared was trained with 20 _,_ 000 training examples
[5https://sites.google.com/view/](https://sites.google.com/view/domainrandomization/)
[domainrandomization/](https://sites.google.com/view/domainrandomization/)



Fig. 6. Two representative executions of grasping objects using vision
learned in simulation only. The object detector network estimates the
positions of the object of interest, and then a motion planner plans a simple
sequence of motions to grasp the object at that location.


_•_ Introducing additional forms of texture, lighting, and
rendering randomization to the simulation and training
on more data

_•_ Incorporating multiple camera viewpoints, stereo vision,
or depth information

_•_ Combining domain randomization with domain adaptation

Domain randomization is a promising research direction
toward bridging the reality gap for robotic behaviors learned
in simulation. Deep reinforcement learning may allow more
complex policies to be learned in simulation through largescale exploration and optimization, and domain randomization could be an important tool for making such policies
useful on real robots.


REFERENCES


[1] Pieter Abbeel, Morgan Quigley, and Andrew Y Ng. Using inaccurate
models in reinforcement learning. In _Proceedings_ _of_ _the_ _23rd_ _inter-_
_national_ _conference_ _on_ _Machine_ _learning_, pages 1–8. ACM, 2006.

[2] Rika Antonova, Silvia Cruciani, Christian Smith, and Danica
Kragic. Reinforcement learning for pivoting task. _arXiv_ _preprint_
_[arXiv:1703.00472](http://arxiv.org/abs/1703.00472)_, 2017.

[3] Berk Calli, Arjun Singh, Aaron Walsman, Siddhartha Srinivasa, Pieter
Abbeel, and Aaron M Dollar. The ycb object and model set: Towards
common benchmarks for manipulation research. In _Advanced Robotics_
_(ICAR),_ _2015_ _International_ _Conference_ _on_, pages 510–517. IEEE,
2015.

[4] Alvaro Collet, Dmitry Berenson, Siddhartha S Srinivasa, and Dave
Ferguson. Object recognition and full pose registration from a single
image for robotic manipulation. In _Robotics_ _and_ _Automation,_ _2009._
_ICRA’09._ _IEEE_ _International_ _Conference_ _on_, pages 48–55. IEEE,
2009.

[5] Alvaro Collet, Manuel Martinez, and Siddhartha S Srinivasa. The
moped framework: Object recognition and pose estimation for manipulation. _The International Journal of Robotics Research_, 30(10):1284–
1306, 2011.

[6] Alvaro Collet and Siddhartha S Srinivasa. Efficient multi-view object
recognition and full pose estimation. In _Robotics_ _and_ _Automation_
_(ICRA),_ _2010_ _IEEE_ _International_ _Conference_ _on_, pages 2050–2055.
IEEE, 2010.

[7] Mark Cutler and Jonathan P How. Efficient reinforcement learning for
robots using informative simulated priors. In _Robotics and Automation_
_(ICRA),_ _2015_ _IEEE_ _International_ _Conference_ _on_, pages 2605–2612.
IEEE, 2015.

[8] Mark Cutler, Thomas J Walsh, and Jonathan P How. Reinforcement
learning with multi-fidelity simulators. In _Robotics_ _and_ _Automation_
_(ICRA),_ _2014_ _IEEE_ _International_ _Conference_ _on_, pages 3888–3895.
IEEE, 2014.


[9] Lixin Duan, Dong Xu, and Ivor Tsang. Learning with augmented features for heterogeneous domain adaptation. _arXiv_ _preprint_
_[arXiv:1206.4660](http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.4660)_, 2012.

[10] Staffan Ekvall, Danica Kragic, and Frank Hoffmann. Object recognition and pose estimation using color cooccurrence histograms and
geometric modeling. _Image_ _and_ _Vision_ _Computing_, 23(11):943–955,
2005.

[11] Ali Ghadirzadeh, Atsuto Maki, Danica Kragic, and M˚arten Bj¨orkman.
Deep predictive policy training using reinforcement learning. _arXiv_
_preprint_ _[arXiv:1703.00727](http://arxiv.org/abs/1703.00727)_, 2017.

[12] Iryna Gordon and David G Lowe. What and where: 3d object
recognition with accurate pose. In _Toward_ _category-level_ _object_
_recognition_, pages 67–82. Springer, 2006.

[13] Abhishek Gupta, Coline Devin, YuXuan Liu, Pieter Abbeel, and
Sergey Levine. Learning invariant feature spaces to transfer skills
with reinforcement learning. _ICLR_ _2017,_ _to_ _appear_, 2017.

[14] Judy Hoffman, Sergio Guadarrama, Eric Tzeng, Ronghang Hu, Jeff
Donahue, Ross Girshick, Trevor Darrell, and Kate Saenko. Lsda: Large
scale detection through adaptation. In _Neural_ _Information_ _Processing_
_Symposium_ _(NIPS)_, 2014.

[15] Judy Hoffman, Erik Rodner, Jeff Donahue, Trevor Darrell, and Kate
Saenko. Efficient learning of domain-invariant image representations.
_arXiv_ _preprint_ _[arXiv:1301.3224](http://arxiv.org/abs/1301.3224)_, 2013.

[16] Stephen James and Edward Johns. 3d simulation for robot arm control
with deep q-learning. _arXiv_ _preprint_ _[arXiv:1609.03759](http://arxiv.org/abs/1609.03759)_, 2016.

[17] Diederik Kingma and Jimmy Ba. Adam: A method for stochastic
optimization. _arXiv_ _preprint_ _[arXiv:1412.6980](http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.6980)_, 2014.

[18] J Zico Kolter and Andrew Y Ng. Learning omnidirectional path
following using dimensionality reduction. In _Robotics:_ _Science_ _and_
_Systems_, 2007.

[19] Brian Kulis, Kate Saenko, and Trevor Darrell. What you saw is not
what you get: Domain adaptation using asymmetric kernel transforms.
In _Computer_ _Vision_ _and_ _Pattern_ _Recognition_ _(CVPR),_ _2011_ _IEEE_
_Conference_ _on_, pages 1785–1792. IEEE, 2011.

[20] Yann LeCun, Yoshua Bengio, and Geoffrey Hinton. Deep learning.
_Nature_, 521(7553):436–444, 2015.

[21] Sergey Levine, Chelsea Finn, Trevor Darrell, and Pieter Abbeel. Endto-end training of deep visuomotor policies. _Journal_ _of_ _Machine_
_Learning_ _Research_, 17(39):1–40, 2016.

[22] Yanghao Li, Naiyan Wang, Jianping Shi, Jiaying Liu, and Xiaodi Hou.
Revisiting batch normalization for practical domain adaptation. _arXiv_
_preprint_ _[arXiv:1603.04779](http://arxiv.org/abs/1603.04779)_, 2016.

[23] Mingsheng Long, Yue Cao, Jianmin Wang, and Michael I Jordan.
Learning transferable features with deep adaptation networks. In
_ICML_, pages 97–105, 2015.

[24] David G Lowe. Three-dimensional object recognition from single
two-dimensional images. _Artificial_ _intelligence_, 31(3):355–395, 1987.

[25] Yishay Mansour, Mehryar Mohri, and Afshin Rostamizadeh. Domain adaptation: Learning bounds and algorithms. _arXiv_ _preprint_
_[arXiv:0902.3430](http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.3430)_, 2009.

[26] Chaitanya Mitash, Kostas E Bekris, and Abdeslam Boularias. A selfsupervised learning system for object detection using physics simulation and multi-view pose estimation. _[arXiv preprint arXiv:1703.03347](http://arxiv.org/abs/1703.03347)_,
2017.

[27] Volodymyr Mnih, Koray Kavukcuoglu, David Silver, Andrei A Rusu,
Joel Veness, Marc G Bellemare, Alex Graves, Martin Riedmiller,
Andreas K Fidjeland, Georg Ostrovski, et al. Human-level control
through deep reinforcement learning. _Nature_, 518(7540):529–533,
2015.

[28] Igor Mordatch, Kendall Lowrey, and Emanuel Todorov. Ensemblecio: Full-body dynamic motion planning that transfers to physical
humanoids. In _Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), 2015 IEEE/RSJ_
_International_ _Conference_ _on_, pages 5307–5314. IEEE, 2015.

[29] Yair Movshovitz-Attias, Takeo Kanade, and Yaser Sheikh. How useful
is photo-realistic rendering for visual learning? In _Computer_ _Vision–_
_ECCV_ _2016_ _Workshops_, pages 202–217. Springer, 2016.

[30] Ramakant Nevatia and Thomas O Binford. Description and recognition
of curved objects. _Artificial_ _Intelligence_, 8(1):77–98, 1977.

[31] Xingchao Peng, Baochen Sun, Karim Ali, and Kate Saenko. Learning
deep object detectors from 3d models. In _Proceedings_ _of_ _the_ _IEEE_
_International_ _Conference_ _on_ _Computer_ _Vision_, pages 1278–1286,
2015.

[32] Benjamin Planche, Ziyan Wu, Kai Ma, Shanhui Sun, Stefan Kluckner,
Terrence Chen, Andreas Hutter, Sergey Zakharov, Harald Kosch,
and Jan Ernst. Depthsynth: Real-time realistic synthetic data gen


eration from cad models for 2.5 d recognition. _arXiv_ _preprint_
_[arXiv:1702.08558](http://arxiv.org/abs/1702.08558)_, 2017.

[33] Aravind Rajeswaran, Sarvjeet Ghotra, Sergey Levine, and Balaraman
Ravindran. Epopt: Learning robust neural network policies using
model ensembles. _arXiv_ _preprint_ _[arXiv:1610.01283](http://arxiv.org/abs/1610.01283)_, 2016.

[34] Stephan R Richter, Vibhav Vineet, Stefan Roth, and Vladlen Koltun.
Playing for data: Ground truth from computer games. In _European_
_Conference_ _on_ _Computer_ _Vision_, pages 102–118. Springer, 2016.

[35] Andrei A Rusu, Neil C Rabinowitz, Guillaume Desjardins, Hubert
Soyer, James Kirkpatrick, Koray Kavukcuoglu, Razvan Pascanu,
and Raia Hadsell. Progressive neural networks. _arXiv_ _preprint_
_[arXiv:1606.04671](http://arxiv.org/abs/1606.04671)_, 2016.

[36] Andrei A Rusu, Matej Vecerik, Thomas Roth¨orl, Nicolas Heess,
Razvan Pascanu, and Raia Hadsell. Sim-to-real robot learning from
pixels with progressive nets. _arXiv_ _preprint_ _[arXiv:1610.04286](http://arxiv.org/abs/1610.04286)_, 2016.

[37] Fereshteh Sadeghi and Sergey Levine. (cad) 2 RL: Real single-image
flight without a single real image. _arXiv_ _preprint_ _[arXiv:1611.04201](http://arxiv.org/abs/1611.04201)_,
2016.

[38] John Schulman, Sergey Levine, Pieter Abbeel, Michael I Jordan, and
Philipp Moritz. Trust region policy optimization. In _ICML_, pages
1889–1897, 2015.

[39] Karen Simonyan and Andrew Zisserman. Very deep convolutional networks for large-scale image recognition. _arXiv_ _preprint_
_[arXiv:1409.1556](http://arxiv.org/abs/1409.1556)_, 2014.

[40] Hao Su, Charles R Qi, Yangyan Li, and Leonidas J Guibas. Render for
cnn: Viewpoint estimation in images using cnns trained with rendered
3d model views. In _Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference_
_on_ _Computer_ _Vision_, pages 2686–2694, 2015.

[41] Ioan A Sucan and Sachin Chitta. Moveit! _[http://moveit.ros.org](http://moveit.ros.org)_ .

[42] Baochen Sun and Kate Saenko. From virtual to reality: Fast adaptation
of virtual object detectors to real domains. In _BMVC_, volume 1, page 3,
2014.

[43] Yaniv Taigman, Adam Polyak, and Lior Wolf. Unsupervised crossdomain image generation. _arXiv_ _preprint_ _[arXiv:1611.02200](http://arxiv.org/abs/1611.02200)_, 2016.

[44] Jie Tang, Stephen Miller, Arjun Singh, and Pieter Abbeel. A textured
object recognition pipeline for color and depth image data. In _Robotics_
_and_ _Automation_ _(ICRA),_ _2012_ _IEEE_ _International_ _Conference_ _on_,
pages 3467–3474. IEEE, 2012.

[45] Emanuel Todorov, Tom Erez, and Yuval Tassa. Mujoco: A physics
engine for model-based control. In _Intelligent_ _Robots_ _and_ _Systems_
_(IROS),_ _2012_ _IEEE/RSJ_ _International_ _Conference_ _on_, pages 5026–
5033. IEEE, 2012.

[46] Eric Tzeng, Coline Devin, Judy Hoffman, Chelsea Finn, Pieter Abbeel,
Sergey Levine, Kate Saenko, and Trevor Darrell. Adapting deep visuomotor representations with weak pairwise constraints. In _Workshop_
_on_ _the_ _Algorithmic_ _Foundations_ _of_ _Robotics_ _(WAFR)_, 2016.

[47] Eric Tzeng, Judy Hoffman, Ning Zhang, Kate Saenko, and Trevor
Darrell. Deep domain confusion: Maximizing for domain invariance.
_arXiv_ _preprint_ _[arXiv:1412.3474](http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.3474)_, 2014.

[48] Jur Van Den Berg, Stephen Miller, Daniel Duckworth, Humphrey Hu,
Andrew Wan, Xiao-Yu Fu, Ken Goldberg, and Pieter Abbeel. Superhuman performance of surgical tasks by robots using iterative learning
from human-guided demonstrations. In _Robotics_ _and_ _Automation_
_(ICRA),_ _2010_ _IEEE_ _International_ _Conference_ _on_, pages 2074–2081.
IEEE, 2010.

[49] Melonee Wise, Michael Ferguson, Derek King, Eric Diehr, and David
Dymesich. Fetch and freight: Standard platforms for service robot
applications. In _Workshop_ _on_ _Autonomous_ _Mobile_ _Service_ _Robots_,
2016.

[50] Patrick Wunsch and Gerd Hirzinger. Real-time visual tracking of
3d objects with dynamic handling of occlusion. In _Robotics_ _and_
_Automation,_ _1997._ _Proceedings.,_ _1997_ _IEEE_ _International_ _Conference_
_on_, volume 4, pages 2868–2873. IEEE, 1997.

[51] Jun Yang, Rong Yan, and Alexander G Hauptmann. Cross-domain
video concept detection using adaptive svms. In _Proceedings_ _of_ _the_
_15th_ _ACM_ _international_ _conference_ _on_ _Multimedia_, pages 188–197.
ACM, 2007.

[52] Jason Yosinski, Jeff Clune, Yoshua Bengio, and Hod Lipson. How
transferable are features in deep neural networks? In _Advances_ _in_
_neural_ _information_ _processing_ _systems_, pages 3320–3328, 2014.

[53] Wenhao Yu, C Karen Liu, and Greg Turk. Preparing for the unknown:
Learning a universal policy with online system identification. _arXiv_
_preprint_ _[arXiv:1702.02453](http://arxiv.org/abs/1702.02453)_, 2017.

[54] Stefan Zickler and Manuela M Veloso. Detection and localization


of multiple objects. In _Humanoid_ _Robots,_ _2006_ _6th_ _IEEE-RAS_
_International_ _Conference_ _on_, pages 20–25. IEEE, 2006.


APPENDIX


_A._ _Randomly_ _generated_ _samples_ _from_ _our_ _method_


Figure 7 displays a selection of the images used during
training for the object detectors detailed in the paper.



Fig. 7. A selection of randomly textured scenes used in the training phase
of our method


