## **Perspectives on Sim2Real Transfer for Robotics:** **A Summary of the R:SS 2020 Workshop**

Sebastian H¨ofer _[∗][,]_ [1], Kostas Bekris [1] _[,]_ [2], Ankur Handa [3], Juan Camilo Gamboa [4], Florian Golemo [5] _[,]_ [6],
Melissa Mozifian [4], Chris Atkeson [7], Dieter Fox [3] _[,]_ [8], Ken Goldberg [9], John Leonard [10], C. Karen Liu [11],
Jan Peters [12] _[,]_ [13], Shuran Song [14], Peter Welinder [15], Martha White [16]



_**Abstract**_ **— This** **report** **presents** **the** **debates,** **posters,** **and**
**discussions** **of** **the** **Sim2Real** **workshop** **held** **in** **conjunction**
**with** **the** **2020** **edition** **of** **the** **“Robotics:** **Science** **and** **System”**
**conference.** **Twelve** **leaders** **of** **the** **field** **took** **competing** **de-**
**bate** **positions** **on** **the** **definition,** **viability,** **and** **importance** **of**
**transferring** **skills** **from** **simulation** **to** **the** **real** **world** **in** **the**
**context** **of** **robotics** **problems.** **The** **debaters** **also** **joined** **a** **large**
**panel** **discussion,** **answering** **audience** **questions** **and** **outlining**
**the** **future** **of** **Sim2Real** **in** **robotics.** **Furthermore,** **we** **invited**
**extended** **abstracts** **to** **this** **workshop** **which** **are** **summarized** **in**
**this** **report.** **Based** **on** **the** **workshop,** **this** **report** **concludes** **with**
**directions** **for** **practitioners** **exploiting** **this** **technology** **and** **for**
**researchers** **further** **exploring** **open** **problems** **in** **this** **area.**


I. INTRODUCTION


Simulation is an important tool for developing robotic
agents. While simulation has been well-established for
robotics education and integrated robot software testing for
years, there is an ongoing debate in the research community about the ability to transfer robotics skills learned in
simulation to reality, a concept termed _Sim2Real_ _transfer_ .
The appeal of learning in simulation stems from the
fact that it can be faster than real-time, cheaper, safer, and
more informative ( _e.g._ providing perfect ground truth labels)
than real-world experimentation. Recent work in Sim2Real
has studied difficult real-world robotic problems related to
autonomous driving, grasping, or in-hand manipulation with
policies trained in simulation only. Fig. 1 highlights some
of the work carried out this year. However, Sim2Real still
faces significant challenges, and it remains an open question
to which extent and in which problem domains Sim2Real can
compete with or outperform techniques based on real-world
experimentation.
To shed light on these questions, we organized a scientific
workshop on the topic of Sim2Real transfer, which was
held at the _Robotics:_ _Science_ _and_ _Systems_ _(R:SS)_ _2020_ [17]

conference. We invited subject matter experts to debate the
state of the art and future of the field. The highlight of the
workshop were three debates with the following topics and
corresponding controversial key statements:


_∗_ Corresponding author: [mail@sebastianhoefer.de](mailto:mail@sebastianhoefer.de)
1Amazon Robotics AI 2Rutgers University 3NVIDIA Robotics
4McGill University 5Mila 6ElementAI 7CMU 8University of Washington
9UC Berkeley 10MIT 11Georgia Tech 12Technische Universit¨at Darmstadt [13] MPI for Intelligent Systems [14] Columbia University [15] OpenAI
16University of Alberta
17All debate videos and abstracts have been made available at
[https://sim2real](https://sim2real.github.io) _._ github _._ io




_•_ _**Why**_ **should** **we** **invest** **in** **Sim2Real?**  - “Sim2Real is a
waste of time and money.”

_•_ _**What**_ **is** **Sim2Real?**  - “Sim2Real is old news. It is just

[model-based reinforcement learning _|_ domain randomization _|_ system identification _|_ _. . ._ ].”

_•_ _**How**_ **should** **we** **apply** **Sim2Real?**  - “For successful
sim2real transfer, there is no alternative to accurate
simulation.“

In order to ensure that a wide range of arguments were
considered during the debates, we divided the debate participants equally into proponents and opponents (two debaters
for each side in each debate) and asked them to adhere to
their assigned role throughout the debate.
The workshop also featured contributed work in the form
of 18 peer-reviewed two-page abstracts and was concluded
with a panel discussion including all debate participants.
The goal of this article is to summarize the workshop and
draw conclusions about Sim2Real for robotics from both
from a practitioner’s as well as a researcher’s perspective.
In the first part, we summarize the three debates and the
concluding panel discussion, highlighting the main arguments brought forward during the debates [18] and the panel.
The second part gives an overview of the contributed work,
highlighting the main themes and summarizing individual
contributions. In the last section, we draw lessons from the
workshop to give concrete recommendations to practitioners
on how to apply Sim2Real to their robotic applications,
and to gather fundamental open questions in Sim2Real that
require the attention of future research.


II. THE SIM2REAL DEBATES


_A._ _Debate_ _1:_ _Why_ _should_ _we_ _invest_ _in_ _Sim2Real?_


The debates started off by questioning the motivation for
using Sim2Real transfer. Chris Atkeson and Abhinav Gupta
argued in favor of and Ken Goldberg and Peter Welinder
against the controversial statement _”Sim2Real_ _is_ _waste_ _of_
_time_ _and_ _money”_ . We present the key topics covered in
the debate which can be broadly clustered into the actual
monetary cost and the effectiveness/time saved by Sim2Real.
**Sim2Real** **is** **cheap.** The opponent side argued that
Sim2Real is significantly cheaper than real world experimentation due to the reduced cost in building and maintaining


18In general, we avoid highlighting the debaters’ names since they were
assigned fixed positions which might not reflect their actual beliefs.


(a) Learning locomotion skills by imitating animals [18] (b) RL-CycleGAN [20]


(c) Deep Drone Acrobatics [10]


(d) Sim to real on granular media [14] (e) Manipulating Rubik’s cube with dexterous hand [15]


Fig. 1: Various state-of-the-art applications of Sim2Real in robotics published in 2019-2020.



real robots. The proponents countered that Sim2Real being
cheap is a myth as training a policy for OpenAI’s Rubik’s
cube costed several thousands of dollars for simulation alone
and over a year of development was necessary to successfully
transfer policies to the real world [16]. The opponents argued
that the high cost reflects the fact that Sim2Real was applied
to a problem of such complexity for the first time, and that
its cost will reduce significantly, similar to how the cost of
robotic hardware decreased over the last decades.


**Sim2Real democratizes research vs. “Sim2Null”.** Given
the low cost of simulation compared to real-robot experiments, simulation clearly lowers the entry barrier for students
and researchers. However, there was consensus that easy-touse simulation environments like OpenAI gym also lead to
a rise of simulation-only research that does not generalize to
the real world - a concept Ken Goldberg termed _Sim2Null_ .



**Sim2Real is diverse.** Another variant of the cost argument
relates to the diversity of data that can be acquired through
simulation. While it is possible to sample millions of variants
of the same task using techniques like domain randomization,
the proponent side suggested that data collection in the real
world can generate much more diverse data sets cheaply,
for example by renting apartments and exploring them with
robots. All agreed that realistic non-deterministic simulation
is understudied.


**Sim2Real already works.** The opponents highlighted that
there are various successful applications of Sim2Real, such
as in civil engineering and aircraft design, but also in robotic
grasping [12]. The proponents objected that ”Sim2Real
works” is not a well-defined statement, and that many
approaches, in particular policies trained in OpenAI gym,
generalize poorly if at all to the real world.


**Simulation** **as** **a** **necessary** **but** **not** **sufficient** **condition**
**for** **success** **in** **real** . Another argument revolved around
the question whether successful performance in simulation
is a necessary condition for success in the real world.
The opponent side argued for this view, highlighting the
opportunity to accelerate research using simulation. The
proponents questioned the idea of simulation as a necessary
condition, since overly simplified modeling of the world and
its modalities may render the simulated problem much harder
than the real one.
**Sim2Real** **is** **safe.** There was agreement that experimentation in Sim2Real is inherently safe and thus useful for
dangerous tasks and exploration. However, the proponent
side argued that robots are becoming safer themselves, for
example soft robots.
**Sim2Gradstudent2Real.** All panelists agreed that the
state of the art in Sim2Real involves a large amount of
manual tuning. The proponent side criticized this fact and
suggested that useful Sim2Real research should be concerned with rigorous modeling and problem understanding

[7]. In contrast, the opponent side argued that this situation motivates investigating in data-efficient general-purpose
Sim2Real methods.
In the closing remarks, all speakers unanimously agreed
that simulations alone are not sufficient. There was agreement that simulation tasks and benchmarks need to become
more challenging and that researchers need to run convincing
real-world experiments rather than drawing general conclusions from simulation-only experiments.


_B._ _Debate_ _2:_ _What_ _Is_ _Sim2Real?_


The second debate topic addressed the question of whether
Sim2Real qualifies as a methodology or field of its own.
Jan Peters and Martha White argued in favor of and Greg
Dudek and John Leonard against the controversial statement
_”Sim2Real is old news. It is just [model-based Reinforcement_
_Learning_ _|_ _domain_ _randomization_ _|_ _system_ _identification_ _|_
_. . .]”_ . The debate centered around the issues of building upon
existing work, providing grounds for a community to form,
and the specifics of the field that make it unique.
**Sim2Real** **is** **prior** **art** . The proponent side’s main argument was that current Sim2Real methods date back to the
1960s to 1980s, with the main difference being the scale of
computational resources available. For example, Real2Sim
can be regarded as system identification and Sim2Real
as adaptive control: Both combine analytical models with
parametric ones (such as shallow neural networks) in order
to model complex systems and learn controllers. Similarly,
model-based reinforcement learning can be regarded as a
method that iteratively refines a poor model or simulation of
the world to learn a controller for the real world.
**Sim2Real** **brings** **together** **distant** **research** **commu-**
**nities.** While acknowledging that the techniques used in
Sim2Real are not necessarily new, the opposing side argued that Sim2Real approaches have had significant impact
on a wide variety of research domains beyond control
(like perception and physical modelling). Therefore, treating



Sim2Real as a field of its own provides value by connecting
researchers from different disciplines, including robotics,
computer vision, control theory, physics-based modelling,
reinforcement learning and simulation-based inference.
**Impact** **of** **the** **reality** **gap** **on** **Sim2Real** . Both sides
agreed that highly accurate simulations of reality remain a
distant “pipe dream” for robotics: there will always exist
a reality gap, for any level of sophistication of computer
simulations. The debaters disagreed on the impact of this
statement on the debate topic. The opponent side argued that
the inability to close the reality gap justifies the existence
of Sim2Real as a field of its own: Rather than reducing
Sim2Real to making simulators more accurate, Sim2Real
would then be the field that studies how useful information
can be extracted from models that are not entirely accurate.
The proponents countered that if Sim2Real is not about
closing the reality gap with better modelling, it would simply
re-brand existing techniques in robust control.


_C._ _Debate_ _3:_ _How_ _should_ _we_ _apply_ _Sim2Real?_


The goal of the third debate was to shed light on the
relationship between Sim2Real methods and accurate simulations. Dieter Fox and Karen Liu argued in favor and Anca
Dragan and Shuran Song against the controversial statement
_”For_ _successful_ _Sim2Real_ _transfer,_ _there_ _is_ _no_ _alternative_ _to_
_accurate_ _simulation”_ . The debate touched upon a variety of
topics, from levels of abstraction to the trade-off between
accuracy and generalization.
**Right** **level** **of** **abstraction.** The debaters agreed that
finding the right level of abstraction is key, yet difficult
as it presupposes knowing what is relevant to the task.
Both sides agreed that current simulators do not model
physical phenomena sufficiently well. While the proponent
side concluded that this situation calls for investing into
better modeling at lower levels of abstraction, the opponent
side argued that high-level abstraction suffices, comparing
simulation of physical interaction with human behavior:
Robots need to learn to collaborate with humans without
simulating the entire human brain, so why would physical
interaction require low-level simulation of physics? Furthermore, humans themselves learn from “abstract simulation”,
such as books and movies.
**Imprecision.** Assuming a given level of abstraction, the
debaters discussed the implications of imprecise simulation.
The opponents argued that accurate modelling is expensive
and often infeasible. Additionally, any abstraction – and thus,
any simulator - inevitably results in a loss of accuracy due
to the fact that it does not capture the underlying process.
The proponent side argued that imprecise simulators at any
level of abstraction are useless because, once deployed to
the real world, the agent has to unlearn a lot of what it
had learned in the imprecise simulator. The only way to get
around this issue is heavy domain randomization over a large
set of simulation parameters, which however does not scale
for more complex tasks and environments. The opposing
side argued that exactly this imperfection and deliberate bias
causes model resilience and policy generalization.


**Generalization** **and** **Extrapolation.** Another argument of
the proponents against imprecise simulation concerned its
limited generalization capability: A precise simulator is a
useful building block to solve many different problems, while
an imprecise simulator will work for some but not other
tasks. The proponent side explicitly distinguished generalpurpose simulators from task-specific internal models, which
do not need to be precise but only serve a single purpose.
**Uncertainty** **and** **Noise.** The speakers agreed upon the
importance of explicit uncertainty estimates, _i.e._ modeling
where the simulator is uncertain about its future state predictions. Such estimates, while difficult to obtain, would be
useful to identify failure cases early on or leverage them to
collect data for improving the simulator.


III. PANEL DISCUSSION


The workshop was concluded with a panel discussion.
During the panel, the debaters were allowed to express their
personal opinions and a few debaters noticed that their opinions had reshaped after defending extreme positions during
the debates. The lively panel was a free-form discussion with
some recurring topics which we summarize in this section.
**Task-agnostic** **vs.** **task-specific** **simulation.** An important
question to the panel was whether simulators should be taskagnostic or task-specific. The panelists agreed that there are
diminishing returns in improving task-agnostic simulation as
we ultimately care about task performance, not simulation
accuracy. Moreover, certain domains such as underwater
robotics or scenarios involving human interaction are still
beyond the scope of state-of-the-art simulators. At the same
time, task-agnostic simulators are regarded as the only means
to provide tools that generalize across a sufficiently large
range of problems. The panelists mentioned _domain random-_
_ization_ as a success story that shows how task-agnostic stateof-the-art simulation tools allow to learn real-world policies.
At the same time, there was agreement that it remains an
open question how to apply this technique at scale.
Several alternatives to task-agnostic simulation were considered. One proposition was to invest in _task-agnostic_ _but_
_customizable_ simulators. Such a simulator could be obtained
by closing the loop and iteratively tuning the simulation to
the world using Real2Sim and system identification.
The panelists identified _differentiable_ _simulators_ as another promising research direction. The main benefit of this
direction is that it moves simulation closer to models which
can be used in model-based optimization, allowing for computing derivatives and thus improving the controller directly.
There were doubts whether full differentiability is needed
since many real world phenomena are not differentiable and
this would inevitably make simulator design more complex.
_Meta_ _learning_ was identified as an promising orthogonal
direction. The key idea is to learn to adapt to a changing
world (in simulation) rather than attempting to learn all the
characteristics of the world.
**Sim2Real** **as** **a** **research** **discipline** **on** **its** **own** **(with** **its**
**own** **symposia** **and** **academic** **curriculum).** The panelists
acknowledged the importance of Sim2Real in its own right,



hypothesizing that Sim2Real could be a way of building
bridges between disciplines across non-traditional paths,
potentially through a Sim2Real grand challenge. The panel
agreed that we should refrain from introducing new symposia and conferences to avoid further fragmentation of the
robotics community, and to continue exploring Sim2Real in
scientific workshops.
**The** **value** **of** **robotics** **research** **performed** **exclusively**
**in** **simulation** **(Sim2Sim).** There was wide agreement that
the ultimate goal is to design robotic systems that live
in the real-world. Nevertheless, simulation-only results can
provide valuable insights, for examples by providing repeatable benchmarks on standardized tasks. Therefore, there
should not be a rejection by default of papers that do not
contain real-world experiments. At the same time, authors
need to do due diligence and provide convincing evidence
about the real-world applicability of new approaches that
are only validated in simulation. Moreover, the community
should invest into creating simulators that simplify the job
of researchers as well as practitioners and allow for better
Sim2Real transfer.


IV. PRESENTED ABSTRACTS


18 short research abstracts were selected to be presented
in the workshop during three 20-minutes interactive sessions.
Authors were invited to submit work on topics related to
Sim2Real, including methods for improving simulator accuracy, training robust controllers, formalizing the Sim2Real
problem, assessing the difficulty of and benchmarking strategies for Sim2Real. Below, we provide a short summary of
each work.


_A._ _On_ _the_ _formalization_ _and_ _difficulty_ _of_ _Sim2Real_


One of the standing issues in Sim2Real is the lack of
a framework for comparing Sim2Real solutions. Paull _et_
_al._ [17] propose to distinguish between the use of the
simulator as a predictor vs. as a teacher, and argue that
regardless of its role, the value of any simulator is its impact
on final task performance.
On the topic of the difficulty of Sim2Real, multiple
submissions explored the question whether current simulators are adequate for solving complex manipulation and
locomotion tasks. Zhang [26] argues that the gap between
current simulators for contact-rich tasks is too wide to expect
any positive transfer, even when considering domain randomization. Rizzardo _et_ _al._ [22] describe one such contact-rich
task, precision agriculture, where simulation of fruit picking
is a bottleneck for Sim2Real. Dao _et_ _al._ [3] show show how
a state-of-the-art simulator, with its limitations in simulating
contacts, can be used to train controllers that successfully
transfer to real a walking bipedal robot without using any
domain randomization.
Finally, on the topic of benchmarking, Kadian _et_ _al._ [9]
introduce Habitat-PyRobot Bridge (HaPy), a library for
seamless execution of code on simulated agents and robots,
and propose using the Sim-vs-Real Correlation Coefficient


(SRCC) as a transfer metric: to evaluate whether improvements in performance in simulation are correlated with
improvements in the real world.


_B._ _On_ _bridging_ _the_ _reality_ _gap_ _with_ _existing_ _simulators_


A successful technique for Sim2Real is to explicitly design
or learn intermediate representations that generalize between
simulation data and real data. Zhang _et_ _al._ [25] propose to
using an off-the-shelf 3D object detector to train obstacle
avoidance policies for manipulation that directly transfer
to the real world without the need of a visually accurate
simulator. Related to this approach, Liang _et_ _al._ [11] train
obstacle avoidance policies for mobile robot navigation in
simulated environments to navigate crowds. Here, the intermediate representation is provided by laser scan readings,
which are easier to simulate than cameras. Yan _et_ _al._ [24]
propose to learn intermediate representations for deformable
object manipulation by jointly optimizing both the visual
representation model and the dynamics model using contrastive estimation. Antonova _et_ _al._ [1] propose a metarepresentation learning approach that infers analytic relations
from simulation and leverages these relations when learning
intermediate representations in the real domain.
A related approach for vision tasks is to use off-the-shelf
photorealistic rendering engines to produce self-labeled data.
Denninger _et_ _al._ [4] introduce _BlenderProc_, a pipeline for
procedural generation of labelled data for vision tasks, which
the authors demonstrate on the task of image segmentation.
Wu _et_ _al._ [23] leverage domain randomization to generalize
deformable object manipulation policies to the real domain.
Finally, the Sim2Real gap can be addressed at the policy
level. Malmir _et_ _al._ [13] introduce a method that leverages
the discrepancies between inverse dynamics in simulation
and the real world to compute corrections to controllers
learned in simulation. Josifovski _et_ _al._ [8] propose reducing
the Sim2Real gap using curriculum learning, by training the
robot on increasingly more difficult versions of the task.


_C._ _On_ _bridging_ _the_ _reality_ _gap_ _with_ _improved_ _models_ _and_
_real-world_ _data_


Based on the intuition that more accurate models are
more likely to transfer to real, several submissions propose
leveraging real-world data for improving simulators.
Raparthy _et_ _al._ [21] propose a curiosity-based data collection scheme for training a physics-based simulator with
a residual model for the discrepancies between real-world
and simulated data. Heiden _et al._ [6] propose a differentiable
formulation of rigid-body dynamics that allows training both
a residual physics model along with the internal parameters
of the simulator, allowing to backpropagate through the
physics-based model.
Possas _et_ _al._ [19] take an alternative approach, where the
simulator is treated as a black-box, and real-world data is
used to infer the parameters of the simulator online as a robot
is learning to execute a task. Antonova _et_ _al._ [2] propose a
related method, where inference is done with Gaussian Processes with kernels learned from simulation data. Similarly,



Desai _et_ _al._ [5] propose to reduce the distribution mismatch
between simulator and real world by learning behaviors that
mimic the observations of behavior demonstrations.


V. KEY DIRECTIONS FORWARD


The workshop debates and contributed papers provide a
view on the state-of-the-art in Sim2Real techniques and open
problems in this area. This section summarizes the findings
and conclusions from the workshop, which we classify as
belonging to either a practitioner’s or a researcher’s perspective. For the practitioner’s perspective, we aim to give
concrete advice on applying existing Sim2Real techniques,
their capabilities and their limitations [19] . For the researcher’s
perspective, we state fundamental research problems identified during the workshop, hoping to inspire future research
endeavors.


_A._ _Practitioner’s_ _View:_ _What_ _Can_ _Sim2Real_ _Already_
_Achieve?_


The first question that practitioners should ask themselves is whether their problem setting would benefit from
Sim2Real techniques. The following list of requirements
constitute criteria that can provide guidance in answering
this question:


_•_ **Bootstrapping:** Is it possible to obtain a proof of concepts relevant to the real-world problem in simulation?
Simulators can be extremely helpful for scoping the
problem and initial hypothesis testing. For learning and
adaptive systems, learning in a carefully tuned simulator
is an effective way to bootstrap learning in the real
world.

_•_ **Long-term** **data** **starvation:** Is the effort in collecting
real world data, especially labeled data, considerably
higher, more dangerous or even infeasible relative to
the effort of developing a simulator? Simulators can be
a valuable and endless source of labeled synthetic data,
in particular if data is and remains hard to collect due
to cost or safety constraints. However, real data should
be preferred if available in sufficient quantities.

_•_ **Hardware-in-the-loop** **optimization:** Is the goal to
co-design hardware and software? In such scenarios
there may be no alternative to simulation. Sim2Real
techniques can be useful for learning and exploring
the hardware design space, which may be impractical
without a simulator.

_•_ **Common** **computer** **vision** **problems:** Is the problem
mainly a computer vision task? Object detection, image
segmentation and geometry estimation have received
significant attention in the last decade, with the role
of synthetic data becoming more prominent as part of
their solutions.

To address the requirements from the previous list, we
summarize some of the **techniques** that have been shown to
work well in practice.


19We mainly focus on established techniques that have relevance for the
workshop. For a recent, more complete survey see e.g. [27].


**Domain** **randomization** **(DR)** is a simple yet powerful technique to augment the training set, and particularly
well suited for training deep neural networks. The main
challenges, however, correspond to finding the right set of
parameters to randomize. The cost of applying DR grows
exponentially with the number of parameters.
**Explicit transferable abstractions** A powerful alternative
to DR is identifying explicit features or state abstractions,
which transfer easily between simulated and real data. For
example, pre-processing images into segmented images,
edges, depth maps or using off-the-shelf image-to-image
translation methods circumvents the problem of generating
realistic images in simulation, but it still requires careful
tuning.
**Combining** **analytical** **modeling** **with** **system** **identifica-**
**tion** **(SysID)** In some settings we can identify challenging
problem aspects, which can be modeled analytically and
apply SysID/ML for them. This approach has been successfully used for grasping and locomotion, and is commonplace
in model-based control. Nevertheless, finding appropriate
models is a challenging task.
**Meta-Learning** **and** **Curriculum** **Learning:** A common
limitation of Sim2Real is its application to situations where
the robot dynamics are hard to simulate, _e.g._ simulating the
transformation from control signals to motor torques. While
learning SysID modules is a possible way of exploiting simulated data, meta-learning provides an alternative for directly
learning systems that adapt to changing environments or
erroneous models. DR techniques can be used to provide a
task distribution for meta-learning. Furthermore, controlling
DR simulators can be an effective way of controlling the
difficulty of learning.
**Depth** **&** **RGB** **rendering** Depth sensors including their
noise models can be effectively simulated and transfer
smoothly to the real world RGB rendering is also catching
up, and recent work has shown increasingly better Sim2Real
generalization [12]. These approaches, however, generally
require high-quality CAD models to be available.
**Domain adaption via GANs** A complementary technique
is to enhance the quality of synthetically generated images
using domain adaption techniques [28]. One challenge here
is to make sure the labels are not distorted.
As a final remark, it is important to be aware of the
fact that Sim2Real techniques are not yet Plug-&-Play nor
completely automated. Their application still requires careful
human attention for understanding the problem and for
tuning the parameters of the chosen approach.


_B._ _Researcher’s_ _View:_ _What_ _Are_ _the_ _Open_ _Questions?_


While the current Sim2Real methods have shown promising results for real world problems, there remain important
open questions and unsolved problems.
**Systematic** **and** **Efficient** **Domain** **Randomization** **(DR)**
Existing DR methods are computationally wasteful, even
after careful selection of the randomization distributions.
Furthermore, selecting the appropriate randomization distribution may be as hard as the problems we would like to



address with DR. What methods can help us automate the
selection of a DR distribution? What are the data requirements of these methods? Can we establish how hard finding
a DR distribution is? Can we accelerate learning using a DR
schedule or curriculum?
**Contact-Rich Tasks** Many simulators struggle to simulate
physically realistic contacts. Contacts with friction is in
general an NP-hard problem and many simulators implement contacts with isotropic Coulomb friction, which is an
inaccurate approximation of real contacts. What level of
accuracy is necessary for applying Sim2Real techniques to
these important aspects for manipulation and locomotion?
**Differentiable** **Simulators** There is growing interest in
creating simulation pipelines, which allows differentiating
the stack of operations involved in simulating dynamics and
rendering. This is a promising direction as that could allow
rapid testing and learning of the simulation parameters. Is
differentiability a requirement for successful Sim2Real? Do
the benefits of differentiable simulation outweigh the cost
of replacing existing black-box simulators? Are there fundamental limits to closing the reality gap with differentiable
simulation?
**Highly** **Accurate** **Simulations** As time goes on, the
capabilities for high-fidelity simulation and rendering keep
improving in accuracy and speed. Will this trend continue
to a point where high fidelity simulation becomes an easily
accessible commodity for most robotics tasks? How can
we improve the simulation accuracy and speed for fabrics,
deformable materials as well as contact-rich tasks? Are there
any fundamental limits to simulation?
**Production-level Sim2Real** How can we push task performance using Sim2Real to production level (99.99% success
rates)?


VI. CONCLUSION


The workshop highlighted the fact that Sim2Real is a
“hot topic”, with many academic and industrial institutions
putting significant resources into investigating the applying
and developing Sim2Real approaches. While there was no
agreement in the debates as to how far Sim2Real will take us
in the future and whether it is the right approach in general,
there was consensus on what Sim2Real can do for robotics
applications today. A community is forming around the
problem with a steadily increasing number of submissions.
This may require the introduction of this keyword as a
separate category during submission to the main robotics
venues, if not potentially devoted meetings in this area. While
the future will tell how Sim2Real will evolve and what
impact it may have on the next breakthroughs in robotics, it is
an exciting area to explore from many different perspectives.


ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS


The authors would like to thank Anca Dragan, Gregory
Dudek and Abhinav Gupta for their contributions to the
debates and panel discussion as well as the R:SS 2020
organizers for hosting our workshop.


REFERENCES


[1] R. Antonova, M. Maydanskiy, D. Kragic, S. Devlin, and K. Hofmann.
Modular latent space transfer with analytic manifold learning. In
_2nd_ _Workshop_ _on_ _Closing_ _the_ _Reality_ _Gap_ _in_ _Sim2Real_ _Transfer_ _for_
_Robotics_ . RSS, 2020.

[2] R. Antonova, A. Rai, and D. Kragic. How to sim2real with gaussian
processes: Prior mean versus kernels as priors. In _2nd_ _Workshop_ _on_
_Closing the Reality Gap in Sim2Real Transfer for Robotics_ . RSS, 2020.

[3] J. Dao, H. Duan, K. Green, J. Hurst, and A. Fern. Learning to walk
without dynamics randomization. In _2nd_ _Workshop_ _on_ _Closing_ _the_
_Reality_ _Gap_ _in_ _Sim2Real_ _Transfer_ _for_ _Robotics_ . RSS, 2020.

[4] M. Denninger, M. Sundermeyer, D. Winkelbauer, D. Olefir, T. Hodan,
Y. Zidan, M. Elbadrawy, M. Knauer, H. Katam, and A. Lodhi.
Blenderproc: Reducing the reality gap with photorealistic rendering.
In _2nd_ _Workshop_ _on_ _Closing_ _the_ _Reality_ _Gap_ _in_ _Sim2Real_ _Transfer_
_for_ _Robotics_ . RSS, 2020.

[5] S. Desai, I. Durugkar, H. Karnan, G. Warnell, J. Hanna, and P. Stone.
An imitation from observation approach to sim-to-real transfer. In
_2nd_ _Workshop_ _on_ _Closing_ _the_ _Reality_ _Gap_ _in_ _Sim2Real_ _Transfer_ _for_
_Robotics_ . RSS, 2020.

[6] E. Heiden, D. Millard, E. Coumans, and G. Sukhatme. Augmenting
differentiable simulators with neural networks to close the sim2real
gap. In _2nd_ _Workshop_ _on_ _Closing_ _the_ _Reality_ _Gap_ _in_ _Sim2Real_
_Transfer_ _for_ _Robotics_ . RSS, 2020.

[7] Jemin Hwangbo, Joonho Lee, Alexey Dosovitskiy, Dario Bellicoso,
Vassilios Tsounis, Vladlen Koltun, and Marco Hutter. Learning
agile and dynamic motor skills for legged robots. _Science_ _Robotics_,
4(26):eaau5872, January 2019.

[8] J. Josifovski, M. Malmir, N. Klarmann, and A. Knoll. Continual learning on incremental simulations for real-world robotic manipulation
tasks. In _2nd_ _Workshop_ _on_ _Closing_ _the_ _Reality_ _Gap_ _in_ _Sim2Real_
_Transfer_ _for_ _Robotics_ . RSS, 2020.

[9] A. Kadian, J. Truong, A. Gokaslan, A. Clegg, E. Wijmans, S. Lee,
M. Savva, S. Chernova, and D. Batra. Sim2real predictivity: Does
evaluation in simulation predict real-world performance? In _2nd_
_Workshop_ _on_ _Closing_ _the_ _Reality_ _Gap_ _in_ _Sim2Real_ _Transfer_ _for_
_Robotics_ . RSS, 2020.

[10] Elia Kaufmann, Antonio Loquercio, Ren´e Ranftl, Matthias M¨uller,
Vladlen Koltun, and Davide Scaramuzza. Deep drone acrobatics. _R:SS_,
2020.

[11] J. Liang, U. Patel, A. J. Sathyamoorthy, and D. Manocha. Accurate
high fidelity simulations for training robot navigation policies for
dense crowds using deep reinforcement learning. In _2nd_ _Workshop_
_on_ _Closing_ _the_ _Reality_ _Gap_ _in_ _Sim2Real_ _Transfer_ _for_ _Robotics_ . RSS
2020, 2020.

[12] Jeffrey Mahler, Matthew Matl, Vishal Satish, Michael Danielczuk, Bill
DeRose, Stephen McKinley, and Ken Goldberg. Learning ambidextrous robot grasping policies. _Science_ _Robotics_, 4(26), January 2019.

[13] M. Malmir, J. Josifovski, N. Klarmann, and A. Knoll. Robust sim2real
transfer by learning inverse dynamics of simulated systems. In
_2nd_ _Workshop_ _on_ _Closing_ _the_ _Reality_ _Gap_ _in_ _Sim2Real_ _Transfer_ _for_
_Robotics_ . RSS, 2020.

[14] Carolyn Matl, Yashraj Narang, Ruzena Bajcsy, Fabio Ramos, and
Dieter Fox. Inferring the material properties of granular media for
robotic tasks, 2020.

[15] OpenAI, Ilge Akkaya, Marcin Andrychowicz, Maciek Chociej, Mateusz Litwin, Bob McGrew, Arthur Petron, Alex Paino, Matthias
Plappert, Glenn Powell, Raphael Ribas, Jonas Schneider, Nikolas
Tezak, Jerry Tworek, Peter Welinder, Lilian Weng, Qiming Yuan,
Wojciech Zaremba, and Lei Zhang. Solving rubik’s cube with a robot
hand, 2019.

[16] OpenAI, Ilge Akkaya, Marcin Andrychowicz, Maciek Chociej, Mateusz Litwin, Bob McGrew, Arthur Petron, Alex Paino, Matthias
Plappert, Glenn Powell, Raphael Ribas, Jonas Schneider, Nikolas
Tezak, Jerry Tworek, Peter Welinder, Lilian Weng, Qiming Yuan,
Wojciech Zaremba, and Lei Zhang. Solving rubik’s cube with a robot
hand, 2019.

[17] L. Paull and A. Courchesne. On assessing the value of simulation for
robotics. In _2nd_ _Workshop_ _on_ _Closing_ _the_ _Reality_ _Gap_ _in_ _Sim2Real_
_Transfer_ _for_ _Robotics_ . RSS, 2020.

[18] Xue Bin Peng, Erwin Coumans, Tingnan Zhang, Tsang-Wei Lee, Jie
Tan, and Sergey Levine. Learning agile robotic locomotion skills by
imitating animals, 2020.




[19] R. Possas, F. Ramos, D. Fox, L. Barcelos, and R. Oliveira. Online
bayessim for combined simulator parameter inference and policy
improvement. In _2nd_ _Workshop_ _on_ _Closing_ _the_ _Reality_ _Gap_ _in_
_Sim2Real_ _Transfer_ _for_ _Robotics_ . RSS, 2020.

[20] Kanishka Rao, Chris Harris, Alex Irpan, Sergey Levine, Julian Ibarz,
and Mohi Khansari. Rl-cyclegan: Reinforcement learning aware
simulation-to-real, 2020.

[21] S. C. Raparthy, M. Mozifian, L. Paull, and F. Golemo. Cunas curiosity-driven neural-augmented simulator. In _2nd_ _Workshop_ _on_
_Closing the Reality Gap in Sim2Real Transfer for Robotics_ . RSS, 2020.

[22] C. Rizzardo, S. Katyara, M. Fernandes, and F. Chen. The importance
and the limitations of sim2real for robotic manipulation in precision
agriculture. In _2nd Workshop on Closing the Reality Gap in Sim2Real_
_Transfer_ _for_ _Robotics_ . RSS, 2020.

[23] Y. Wu, W Yan, T. Kurutach, L. Pinto, and P. Abbeel. Learning
to manipulate deformable objects without demonstrations. In _2nd_
_Workshop_ _on_ _Closing_ _the_ _Reality_ _Gap_ _in_ _Sim2Real_ _Transfer_ _for_
_Robotics_ . RSS, 2020.

[24] W. Yan, A. Vangipuram, P. Abbeel, and L. Pinto. Learning predictive
representations for deformable objects with contrastive estimation. In
_2nd_ _Workshop_ _on_ _Closing_ _the_ _Reality_ _Gap_ _in_ _Sim2Real_ _Transfer_ _for_
_Robotics_ . RSS, 2020.

[25] K. Zhang, T. Zhang, J. Lin, and L. Bi. Sim2real learning of visionbased obstacle avoidance for robotic manipulators. In _2nd_ _Workshop_
_on_ _Closing_ _the_ _Reality_ _Gap_ _in_ _Sim2Real_ _Transfer_ _for_ _Robotics_ . RSS,
2020.

[26] M. Zhang. Necessity for more realistic contact simulation. In
_2nd_ _Workshop_ _on_ _Closing_ _the_ _Reality_ _Gap_ _in_ _Sim2Real_ _Transfer_ _for_
_Robotics_ . RSS, 2020.

[27] Wenshuai Zhao, Jorge Pe˜na Queralta, and Tomi Westerlund. Simto-real transfer in deep reinforcement learning for robotics: a survey,
2020.

[28] Jun-Yan Zhu, Taesung Park, Phillip Isola, and Alexei A. Efros.
Unpaired image-to-image translation using cycle-consistent adversarial
networks. In _2017_ _International_ _Conference_ _on_ _Computer_ _Vision_
_(ICCV)_, 2017.


